#### Disciplinary Counsel v. Jarvis, 205 N.E.3d 499 (Ohio 2022)

<p class="case-h1">Per Curiam.</p>

Respondent, Timothy Paul Jarvis, was admitted to the practice of law in Ohio in 2003. In an August 2021 complaint, disciplinary counsel charged Jarvis with seven ethical violations arising from the representation of a married couple and their trustee in an estate-planning matter. Discipinary counsel alleged that Jarvis had neglected his clients' legal matter, failed to communicate with his clients about their wishes, and failed to assess one client's testamentary capacity, falsely notarized various estate-planning documents, instructed his employee to falsely indicate that she had witnessed documents, and failed to promptly deliver their file upon the termination of his representation.

The parties entered into stipulations of fact, misconduct, and aggravating and mitigating factors. After a hearing conducted by a three-member panel of the Board of Professional Conduct, the board issued a report finding that Jarvis committed six stipulated rule violations and unanimously dismissing a seventh alleged violation. The board adopted the parties' stipulated aggravating and mitigating factors and recommended that Jarvis be suspended from the practice of law for one year, stayed in its entirety on the conditions that he commit no further misconduct and make restitution of $7,500 within 30 days of the date of our final order. No objections have been filed.

We adopt the board's findings of misconduct, but for the reasons that follow, we find that a greater sanction is warranted. We therefore suspend Jarvis from the practice of law for 18 months with the entire suspension stayed on the conditions recommended by the board.

<p class="case-h1">Misconduct</p>

Frank A. and Lenor W. Balcar (jointly, "the Balcars"), were married in 1941. They had five children—Bruce, Paul, Karen, Mark, and Barbara.

Frank suffered a massive and debilitating stroke in February 2010 and subsequently lived in a nursing home. In May of that year, Lenor and Karen contacted Jarvis's law firm, Jarvis Law Office, about preserving and protecting the Balcars' assets from being depleted by the costs of Frank's care. They met with Melissa Evick, a nonattorney who, at that time, served as Jarvis's office manager. Lenor and Karen gave Evick basic information regarding the Balcars and their assets. They also informed her that Frank was 94 years old and in poor health. Evick conveyed the information to Jarvis by email later that day.

On May 28, Jarvis met with Lenor and Karen. He told them that he could create an irrevocable trust that would protect the Balcars' assets and that he would then apply for Medicaid on Frank's behalf. Jarvis told Lenor and Karen that he could save them between $95,000 and $110,000 if they retained him. Jarvis was aware that even if Frank qualified for Medicaid, his family would still have to pay for at least 16 months of his care due to a Medicaid "lookback" or "penalty" period. But Jarvis has stipulated that if Karen were called to testify, she would state that he did not advise them about the lookback period other than to tell them that it was "very short."

After advising Jarvis about Frank's health conditions—including a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease—Lenor and Karen specifically asked if Frank was competent to sign legal documents. Jarvis has stipulated that Karen would testify that he advised her and Lenor that (1) Frank's capacity would not be an issue and (2) Frank only needed to be able to place an "X" on the appropriate lines of the documents. Although Karen emailed additional questions to Jarvis, he refused to respond, claiming, "I've learned the hard way that if I 'give away' all of my secrets prior to being retained, I run the risk of someone thinking that they can do this themselves."

In June, Karen paid Jarvis $7,500 to represent them. Although Jarvis did not enter into a written fee agreement detailing the scope of the representation, based on their communications, Karen believed that he would draft updated estate documents for the Balcars, transfer the Balcars' nonmonetary assets into an irrevocable trust, and if necessary, probate the Balcars' estates. Karen and Barbara provided Evick with documentation regarding the Balcars' assets to facilitate the transfer of those assets into the irrevocable trust.

<p class="case-h2">Drafting of Estate-Planning Documents</p>

Jarvis drafted the Balcar Family Irrevocable Trust and a certification of trust. Consistent with an earlier revocable trust that had been created by Lenor and the amendments to it, the irrevocable trust (1) designated Karen as the trustee, (2) provided that upon the deaths of Frank and Lenor, 10 percent of the trust assets would be distributed to a faith-based organization, and (3) provided that there would be no distribution to Paul other than a watch that had belonged to Frank. In contrast to the earlier revocable trust, which had provided that Barbara would receive a larger percentage of the remaining trust assets, the irrevocable trust provided that those assets would be split equally among Bruce, Karen, Mark, and Barbara.

In addition, Jarvis drafted other estate-planning documents, including wills and durable powers of attorney.

<p class="case-h2">False Signing and Notarization</p>

On June 25, Evick met with Frank at the nursing home where he resided and had him sign a durable power of attorney. On June 28, Evick and another employee of Jarvis's firm met with Frank and had him sign a second copy of that document.

 Although Jarvis met with Lenor, he never personally communicated with Frank and therefore never (1) explained the purpose of the estate-planning documents, (2) ascertained whether Frank wanted to execute the documents, or (3) determined whether Frank had the testamentary or contractual capacity to sign them. Nor was Jarvis present when Frank signed the durable powers of attorney. However, Jarvis signed the first durable power of attorney as a witness and falsely notarized both versions under jurats stating that Frank had personally appeared before him and voluntarily signed the instrument.

On August 11, a doctor examined Frank and noted, "Frank does not communicate when asked questions, he looks at you but is not able to answer questions." The following day, Lenor and Karen met with Jarvis to review and sign the estate documents. Lenor signed the irrevocable-trust agreement and other estate-planning documents in Jarvis's presence. Karen signed the agreement as the trustee. Evick signed Lenor's will and durable power of attorney as a witness. Jarvis stipulated, however, that if Evick were called to testify, she would state that she was either called into the meeting after the documents were signed or that she signed them as a witness sometime after Lenor and Karen left—a common practice in Jarvis's office at that time.

Even though Jarvis knew that Evick was not an Ohio notary, he directed her to meet with Frank at his nursing home on August 13 or 14 to have him sign the irrevocable trust and four other estate-planning documents. Jarvis did not discuss those documents with Frank or assess Frank's testamentary or contractual capacity _before_ Frank signed them. Nor was he present when Frank signed them. But several days after Evick obtained Frank's signature on those five documents, Jarvis backdated and notarized all of them under jurats that falsely stated that Frank had personally appeared before him to acknowledge his signature. He also falsely signed Frank's will as a witness and attested on two of the documents that Frank appeared to be of sound mind when he signed them.

<p class="case-h2">Conduct after the Estate-Planning Documents Were Executed and after the Balcars' Deaths</p>

At the end of September, Evick applied for Medicaid on Frank's behalf. Although almost seven weeks had elapsed since Frank signed the trust agreement and the other estate-planning documents, the only asset that had been transferred to the irrevocable trust was a checking account belonging to Lenor. By the end of October, the Department of Job and Family Services had determined that the application was incomplete and had requested additional information regarding Frank's assets.

Frank died on November 6, 2010, without qualifying for or receiving any Medicaid benefits. Because most of his assets had not been transferred into the irrevocable trust, they were subject to probate costs and estate taxes.

In April 2011, Lenor signed a fiduciary deed to transfer her home from the revocable trust to the irrevocable trust. Jarvis notarized the deed under a jurat falsely stating that Lenor had personally appeared before him to acknowledge the signature. The deed was recorded on May 4, 2011—Lenor died nine days later.

Jarvis continued to represent Karen as trustee of the irrevocable trust and executor of the Balcars' estates. Karen and Barbara continued to correspond with Evick and provide her with documents related to the estates and the trust. Karen believed that Jarvis would send a letter to the trust's beneficiaries informing them of the trust's existence and how it would affect them—but he never did.

By July 2011, the Balcars' son Bruce had learned that the irrevocable trust existed. He engaged counsel, who wrote a letter to Karen requesting a copy of the irrevocable trust and an inventory of the trust assets. Karen forwarded that letter to Evick, who stated that Jarvis would respond to it. As a trustee, Karen had a statutory obligation to keep the beneficiaries reasonably informed about the administration of the trust and to promptly respond to a beneficiary's request for information. Notwithstanding that obligation, Jarvis did not respond to the request for information that Karen had received from Bruce's attorney or to a subsequent request that the attorney sent directly to him.

Paul, another of the Balcars' sons, met with Evick in early August and requested a copy of the irrevocable-trust agreement. Evick declined to give him a copy of the trust agreement but read to him the portions of the agreement related to his distribution and Frank's watch. Paul left the meeting upset.

Evick notified Karen about her meeting with Paul and emailed Karen a copy of the letter that Bruce's counsel had sent to Jarvis. Karen responded to that email and demanded a date that the information would be sent to Bruce's counsel. She also expressed displeasure that Jarvis had not responded to the attorney's first letter, stating, "Had the original letters been sent two weeks after my mother's death as I was expecting most of this would have been avoided." Jarvis responded with an email informing Karen that the letter to Bruce's counsel would go out when he completed it and threatening to terminate the representation if Karen did not abide by his rules.

By the end of August 2011, Paul's counsel had also written to Jarvis to request complete copies of any trust instruments, all beneficiary reports or updates, the name of the trustee, and the trustee's compensation rate. In an October 5 email, Jarvis informed Karen that he had received a second letter from Paul's counsel and—for the first time—told her that she was required to provide a copy of the irrevocable-trust agreement to the trust beneficiaries. Although Jarvis stated that he would provide a copy of the agreement to Paul's counsel, he never responded to either attorney's inquiries.

Jarvis's October 5 email to Karen also stated that because Bruce and Paul had engaged counsel, "it seems fairly likely that they would end up in litigation." For that reason, Jarvis asserted that he could no longer represent the estates of Frank and Lenor and withdrew from the representation. That day, Karen instructed Jarvis to send information regarding the irrevocable trust to her new attorney. Despite having received that email and a follow-up email from Karen, Jarvis did not forward the requested information.

Later that month, Paul filed a complaint against Karen in the Belmont County Probate Court alleging that she had failed to notify him of the trust or keep him apprised of trust assets as required by law. He further alleged that she had used undue influence, coercion, or other means to persuade Frank and Lenor to revise their estate plan. Bruce sought and was granted leave to intervene in the proceeding. In July 2012, Karen's counsel asked Jarvis to turn over the original file to him by July 16. On August 10—ten months after he had withdrawn from the representation—Jarvis finally produced a copy of the case file. Although the Balcar siblings entered into a settlement agreement in August 2013, the probate litigation continued for another five years.

<p class="case-h2">Malpractice Litigation</p>

In October 2012, Karen filed a legal-malpractice action against Jarvis in the Franklin County Court of Common Pleas. Following a ten-day trial in March 2019, a jury found Jarvis liable for legal malpractice and awarded Karen compensatory damages and punitive damages. In response to the parties' posttrial motions, the court reduced the punitive damages to zero and awarded Karen approximately 40 percent of her claimed attorney fees.

The parties appealed the trial court's judgment. In February 2021, the court of appeals affirmed the trial court's rulings in part, reversed them in part, and remanded the case for further proceedings. The parties have now settled, and that litigation has been dismissed.

<p class="case-h2">Findings of Misconduct</p>

The parties stipulated and the board found that Jarvis's conduct violated Prof.Cond.R. 1.3 (requiring a lawyer to act with reasonable diligence in representing a client), 1.4(a)(2) (requiring a lawyer to reasonably consult with the client about the means by which the client's objectives are to be accomplished), 1.14(a) (requiring a lawyer, as far as reasonably possible, to maintain a normal lawyer-client relationship with the client when the client's capacity to make adequately considered decisions in connection with a representation is diminished due to mental impairment), 1.16(d) (requiring a lawyer to promptly deliver client papers and property as part of the termination of representation), 5.3 (requiring a lawyer possessing managerial authority in a law firm to make reasonable efforts to ensure that the conduct of nonattorneys working for the firm is compatible with the professional obligations of the lawyer), and 8.4(c) (prohibiting a lawyer from engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation).

We adopt these findings of misconduct.

<p class="case-h1">Conclusion</p>

Accordingly, Timothy Paul Jarvis is suspended from the practice of law in Ohio for 18 months with the suspension stayed in its entirety on the conditions that he commit no further misconduct and make restitution of $7,500 to Karen Balcar McGraw, as trustee of the Lenor W. Balcar Revocable Living Trust, within 30 days of the date of our final order. If Jarvis fails to comply with any condition of the stay, the stay will be lifted and he will serve the full 18-month suspension. 